# Wound Classification

Chronic wounds are defined as physiologically-impaired wounds that face disruptions in its wound healing cycle. Angiogenesis and cellular migration, key physiological processes in wound healing, are impaired, and thus decline in patients’ quality of life. Furthermore, according to a 2018 retrospective analysis on medicare beneficiaries, approximately 8.2 million people suffered from wounds with huge financial burdens ranging from $28.1 billion to $96.8 billion1. Wound specialists rely on biomedical images to diagnose the wound and its etiology, so that proper treatment is provided to patients. However, the wrong wound assessment can lead to improper treatment, to correctly assess and distinguish wound types and provide the appropriate treatment, various Deep Learning models are utilized as practical tools in assisting specialists. This project will compare the accuracy, precision, and recall of multilayer perceptron (MLP), convolution neural network (CNN), and VGG-16 architectures using the Advancing the Zenith of Healthcare (AZH) dataset from AZH Wound and Vascular Center - University of Wisconsin- Milwaukee (UWM). The dataset contains 738 wound images, which are broken down: 100 background, 100 normal-skin, 154 diabetics, 100 pressure, 128 surgical, and 156 venous wound-type images. Background and normal-skin are non-wound images and diabetic, pressure, surgical, venous are wound-type images.  

Link to Dataset: https://github.com/uwm-bigdata/wound-segmentation
